Auto Versioning Makefile
========================

This repository contains a generic makefile for use with small/medium C and C++ projects. This makefile project is forked from https://github.com/mbcrawfo/GenericMakefile but majorly addapted in the meantime. It allows for
easy project setup without the need to create tedious build rules or dependency lists. In the test directory is a makefile configured to create an example executable which references the static library generated by the makefile in the root directory.

# Features:
* Automatically finds and compiles all source files within the source directory.
* Compiles most recently modified files first, to hopefully find problems earlier.
* Automatically generates dependecies as files are compiled, ensuring that files are correctly recompiled when dependecies have updated.
* Includes configurations for normal (release) build and debug build suitable for GDB debugging (the debug is the standard build that is called with a 'make' command.)
* Times the compilation of each file and the entire build.
* Generates version numbers based on git or subversion tags (see below), which are passed the compiler as preprocessor macros.
* Implements and includes a header file with a static PrintVersion function (see example in sources).
* By default, builds in a "verbose" mode which allows you to see the full compiler commands being issued. By passing V=false to make, you can compile with only an output for the actions being performed.
* Automatically added Build Date and Build Number Symbols which can be extracted from the generated lib or executable with the 'getVersion.sh' script included in this repository. Examples follow below.
* Added stacked compilation support to enable a simple project build on multiple cores by make -f makefile.call [option]
* Added IGNORE_SOURCE flag. With IGNORE_SOURCE="*old*" each file, that contains old will be ignored. 
* Supported make flags are:
	* clean - removes all compiled or generated data
	* release - builds an optimized release build of the project
	* debug - builds an gdb debuggable build of this project
	* all - builds both, debug and release
	* reset - resets build number
	* help - shows this overview

##Versioning:
Tags should be made in the format "vMAJOR.MINOR.PATCH[-description]", where MAJOR, MINOR and PATCH are numeric. The following macros will be generated and passed to the preprocessor:
* VERSION_MAJOR (int) - The major version number from the most recent tag.
* VERSION_MINOR (int) - The minor version number from the most recent tag.
* VERSION_PATCH (int) - The patch version number from the most recent tag.
* VERSION_REVISION (int) - The number of commits since the most recent tag.
* BUILD_NUMBER (int) - The build number, which is automatically increasing every time the project is linked.
* BUILD_YEAR (int) - The year of the build date.
* BUILD_MONTH (int) - The month of the build date.
* BUILD_DAY (int) - The day of the build date.
* BUILD_HOUR (int) - The hour of the build date.
* BUILD_MIN (int) - The minute of the build date.
* BUILD_SEC (int) - The second of the build date.

### Examples:
#### How to add a versioned tag:
    git tag -a v1.0.1 -m "Your tag message"
#### How to use the getVersion.sh
    # to list all version information of all linked libraries included in libtest.a.
    ./getVersion.sh libtest.a
    # lists only the version information of libtest.a itself.
    ./getVersion.sh libtest.a libtest.a
    
#### How to use the linked references in code
    # Find all references:
    # The file extention .a of static libraries is removed in the reference symbols.
    objdump -t libtest.a | grep REF
    
    # For usage of the additional linked REF symboles see test/src/main.cpp
    extern char libtest_BUILD_NUMBER_REF;
    std::cout << "Version: v" << (unsigned long) &libtest_BUILD_NUMBER_REF;

#### How to use the generated jversion.hpp header
    # first of all you need to activate the option PRINTVERSION_HEADER := true in makefile.
    ____________
    // Source code
    #include "jversion.hpp"
     
    void yourFunction() 
    {
        // Use the $(NAME) flag you defined in the makefile.
        // First letter of NAME will be converted to CamelCase Syntax (thisIsYourName -> ThisIsYourName).
        JVersion::Name::PrintVersion();
    }

#### How to use the different make flags
	make clean
	make clean debug
	make clean reset debug
	make clean reset release
	...

If the makefile is not used in a git repository, or is in a repository with no tags, the version macros are not created.
Thus the BUILD_XXX flags will always be added.

# Limitations:
* Assumes GNU make.
* Doesn't really support multiple types of source files in the same project.
* Currently no full support for svn.
* Only tested and adapted for Linux system and g++ and ar toolchain.

# Thanks to mbcrawfo and his contributors:
* My friend Jay and people on Stack Overflow for help with regex to parse the version info.
* The residents of /r/programming for suggesting numerous tweaks and improvements.
* For the support and help from Sebastian with this project and a lot of good improvement ideas.
